Configurable authority (#56)
c4dt/arti-rest: tools/README.md

# Tools for arti-cache

## Overview

> To send some data anonymously over the network, Arti-rest rely on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send some data anonymously over the network, Arti-rest relies on a
```

subset of relays of the Tor network.

This script allows to set up a snapshot of the most reliable Tor relays
for faster circuit setup.

You will have to create a custom directory authority, and to periodically
run this script on a trusted server.

Then the app will have to download the files, put them in a directory,
and send the path to this directory to the library.

## Requirements

> This script requires requires Python 3 (version >= 3.7), as well as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script requires Python 3 (version >= 3.7), as well as
```

the libraries Stem (version >= 1.8.0), PyCryptodome
(version >= 3.10.1), and Cryptography.

It is advised to install the required libraries with `pip`:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> Also, to create the directory authority's certificate, this script rely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, to create the directory authority's certificate, this script relies
```

on the program `tor-gencert` that you will have to install on your
machine. For a debian based distribution, this program is usually
installed by the package `tor`:

```
sudo apt-get install tor
```

## Generating Directory Info

We provide a Makefile allowing you to generate all the files you need
for running Arti-rest, but you still need to setup a password to encrypt
some private data of the custom authority via an environment variable:

```
export DIR_AUTH_PASSWORD='dummypassword'
make
```

We configured it to place the files required by Arti-rest in the
sub-directory `directory-cache`, and the private data of the custom
directory authority in the sub-directory `authority-private`.

> Once the data generated, you can use the subdirectory `directory-cache`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the data is generated, you can use the subdirectory `directory-cache`
```

as the `cache_dir` argument.

### Custom Directory Authority

As the directory information needs to be signed, you will need to
create a custom directory authority with a valid certificate. The

> script can generate a custom directory authority with a valid
> certificate by using its `generate-certificate` sub-command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
script can generate it by using its `generate-certificate`
sub-command.
```
?

This step is required, but you only need to do it to create the
custom directory authority and when renewing its certificate.

As `tor-gencert` requires the identity key of the directory
authority to be encrypted, you need to pass a password to the script
via an environment variable.

```
export DIR_AUTH_PASSWORD='dummypassword'
```

Then you can call the script.

```
python3 gen_fresh_dirinfo.py generate-certificate \
  --authority-identity-key authority_identity_key \
  --authority-signing-key authority_signing_key \
  --authority-certificate certificate.txt \
  --authority-v3ident authority.txt \
  --authority-name spring \

>   --certificate-lifetime 12

Reviewer 2: What is the unit of the certificate-lifetime? Might be better to do rename that parameter to

`certificate-validity-years`

or something.

```

> Which creates 4 files:

Reviewer: Maybe give each file name along with its description?

Author: We can specify each filename in the command line, but I can specify the defaults.

- The identity key of the authority which you should keep private in a
  secure location.
- The signing key of the authority which you should keep private and
  that you will need for generating the directory information.
- The certificate of the authority which you will need for generating
  the directory information and which you will need to provide to the
  Arti-rest library.
- A small file containing the v3ident identifier of the authority which
  you will need to provide to the Arti-rest library.

### Generate Directory Information

To generate the directory information, you will need to run the

> `generate-dirinfo` sub-command this script regularly on a trusted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`generate-dirinfo` sub-command of this script regularly on a trusted
```
?

server.

```
python3 gen_fresh_dirinfo.py generate-dirinfo \
  --authority-signing-key authority_signing_key \
  --authority-name spring \
  --authority-contact 'SPRING Lab at EPFL' \
  --authority-certificate certificate.txt \
  --consensus consensus.txt \

>   --consensus-lifetime 7 \

Reviewer 2: Same question as for `certificate-lifetime` - here I think the consensus-lifetime` is in days, and I hope the certificate is valid longer than that...

  --microdescriptors microdescriptors.txt \
  --number-routers 120
```

> This sub-command effectively create a snapshot of the most

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sub-command effectively creates a snapshot of the most
```

reliable advertised relays in the Tor network in the form of two files:

> - A customized consensus containing metadata related to a subset of

Reviewer: Same as above, maybe give the file names?

  routers present in the Tor network.
- A file containing a list of microdescriptors, each router described
  in the consensus is described by one microdescriptor.

## Generate Churn (Incomplete)

> To improve the reliability of the subset of the Tor network Arti-rest
> rely upon to build a circuit, we are providing a way to compute a list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve the reliability of the subset of the Tor network upon which
Arti-rest relies to build a circuit, we are providing a way to compute a list
```
